INPUT: An earthquake with a magnitude of at least 5 . 9 hit southern Iran on Sunday , killing at least 10 people and injuring many others .
Question: In the INPUT sentence, is there a causal relationship between "injuring" and "earthquake"?
Reasoning Process:
1. From the INPUT, An earthquake hit southern Iran
2. From the INPUT, the earthquake is with a magnitude of at least 5 . 9
3. a magnitude of at least 5 . 9 is dangerous enough for destroying buildings and causing things to fall.
4. Typically, high-magnitude earthquakes cause casualties.
5. From the INPUT, there have been people who is injured.
6. Therefore, there is a very high probability that the injuring is caused by the earthquake in the input sentence.
Answer: Yes.

INPUT: Power was restored to the afflicted villages on the Gulf island of Qeshm after a blackout caused by the quake , which struck on Sunday with a force of about 6 . 0 on the Richter scale .
Question: In the INPUT sentence, is there a causal relationship between "struck" and "quake"?
Reasoning Process:
1. The quake is the subject of verb struck, and they together form the event that the earthquake struck the villages.
2. Therefore, they are different component of one event.
3. causal relationship is between two events, rather than a verb and its subject.
4. Therefore, there is not a causal relationship between "struck" and "quake".
Answer: No.

INPUT: Police intervened after more than 100 people joined together for a candlelit vigil in the East Flatbush neighborhood in Brooklyn , New York , where 16 - year - old Kimani Gray was shot multiple times by police on Saturday .
Question: In the INPUT sentence, is there a causal relationship between "vigil" and "shot"?
Reasoning Process:
1. From the INPUT, Kimani Gray was shot multiple times by police.
2. From the INPUT, more than 100 people joined together for a candlelit vigil.
3. Typically, candlelit vigil is a reaction to a tragedy or a crime.
4. From the INPUT, the tragedy is Kimani Gray was shot multiple times by police.
5. Therefore, there is a causal relationship between "vigil" and "shot".
Answer: Yes.

INPUT: fallout continues after brazen escape.
Question: In the INPUT sentence, is there a causal relationship between "fallout" and "continues"?
Reasoning Process:
1. From the INPUT, the fallout continues.
2. From the INPUT, there is a brazen escape.
3. Typically, fallout is a consequence of a certain event.
4. From the INPUT, the event is a brazen escape.
5. Therefore, the cause of "fallout" is "brazen escape".
6. Therefore, there is not a causal relationship between "fallout" and "continues".
Answer: No.

INPUT: A British man has been killed after falling around 2 , 000ft while climbing in New Zealand .
Question: In the INPUT sentence, is there a causal relationship between "climbing" and "falling"?
Reasoning Process:
1. From the INPUT, the British man was climbing in New Zealand.
2. From the INPUT, the British man fell around 2,000ft.
3. Typically, people fall when they are climbing.
4. Therefore, there is a causal relationship between "climbing" and "falling".
Answer: Yes.

INPUT: A man who was fired last week from his job at an accounting firm in suburban Detroit walked into his former office with a shotgun on Monday and shot three people , killing one , before fleeing and leading police officers on a high - speed chase , the authorities said .
Question: In the INPUT sentence, is there a causal relationship between "fleeing" and "walked"?
Reasoning Process:
1. From the INPUT, the cause of "fleeing" is shotting and killing people.
2. From the INPUT, "walked" does not refer to shotting and killing people.
3. Therefore, "walked" is not the cause of "fleeing".
4. Besides, from the INPUT, "fleeing" happened after "walk".
5. Typically, the cause must happen before the result.
6. Therefore, "fleeing" is not the cause of "walked".
7. Because "walked" is not the cause of "fleeing" and "fleeing" is not the cause of "walked", there is no causal relationship between "fleeing" and "walked".
Answer: No.

INPUT: A fire - bomb attack on a bank in Greece killed at least three people Wednesday as police fought pitched battles with striking protestors furious at brutal budget cuts designed to avert national bankruptcy .
Question: In the INPUT sentence, is there a causal relationship between "cuts" and "striking"?
Reasoning Process:
1. From the INPUT, there are budget cuts designed to avert national bankruptcy.
2. From the INPUT, striking protestors are furious about the budget cuts.
3. Typically, people strike as a reaction to a certain event.
4. From the INPUT, the event is the budget cuts.
5. Therefore, there is a causal relationship between "cuts" and "striking".
Answer: Yes.

INPUT: Shooting at Accounting Firm Leaves Woman Dead and 2 Hurt .
Question: In the INPUT sentence, is there a causal relationship between "Dead" and "Hurt"?
Reasoning Process:
1. From the INPUT, the cause of "Hurt" is Shooting.
2. Therefore, "Dead" is not the cause of "Hurt".
3. From the INPUT, the cause of "Dead" is Shooting.
4. Therefore, "Hurt" is not the cause of "Dead".
5. Because "Hurt" is not the cause of "Dead" and "Dead" is not the cause of "Hurt", there is no causal relationship between "Dead" and "Hurt".
Answer: No.

INPUT: A repair vessel has been notified of the call - out and mobilization will occur immediately once permits are received , " SEACOM said in an official statement .
Question: In the INPUT sentence, is there a causal relationship between "call" and "permits"?
Reasoning Process:
1. From the INPUT, "permits" happened after "call".
2. Typically, the cause must happen before the result.
3. Therefore, "permits" is not the cause of "call".
4. From the INPUT, we cannot find statement that implies that "call" is the cause of "permits" .
5. Typically, "call" is not necessarily the cause of "permits" .
6. Therefore, "call" is not the cause of "permits".
7. Because "permits" is not the cause of "call" and "call" is not the cause of "permits", there is no causal relationship between "call" and "permits".
Answer: No.

INPUT: So far , 11 Estelle unit employees have been recommended for termination or faced consequences related to Comeaux's escape .
Question: In the INPUT sentence, is there a causal relationship between "recommended" and "consequences" ?
Reasoning Process:
1. From the INPUT, "recommended" and "faced" happened in the same time.
2. Typically, the cause must happen before the result.
3. Therefore, "recommended" is not the cause of "consequences" and "consequences" is not the cause of "recommended".
4. Because "recommended" is not the cause of "consequences" and "consequences" is not the cause of "recommended", there is no causal relationship between "Dead" and "Hurt".
Answer: No.

INPUT: O'Brien's stubbornness and seemingly unwavering belief in a system that didn't fit his players cost him his job despite a 43 - 39 record and a return to the playoffs .
Question: In the INPUT sentence, is there a causal relationship between "belief" and "return" ?
Reasoning Process:
1. From the INPUT, "belief" didn't fit O'Brien's players cost him his job.
2. Therefore, "belief" does not help improve the performance of O'Brien.
3. From the INPUT, "return" implies that the the performance of O'Brien has improved.
4. Therefore, "belief" is not the cause of "return".
5. From the INPUT, we cannot find statement that implies that "return" is the cause of "belief" .
6. Typically, "return" is not necessarily the cause of "belief" .
7. Therefore, "return" is not the cause of "belief".
8. Because "belief" is not the cause of "return" and "return" is not the cause of "belief", there is no causal relationship between "return" and "belief".
Answer: No.

INPUT: A fire on Tuesday destroyed Palmer's historic Matanuska Maid Dairy warehouse building , which was built in the 1930s when colonists arrived from the Midwest to try their hand at farming in Alaska .
Question: In the INPUT sentence, is there a causal relationship between "try their hand" and "farming"?
Reasoning Process:
1. From the INPUT, "farming" is the object of the verb phrase "try their hand".
2. causal relationship is between two events, rather than a verb and its subject.
3. Therefore, there is no causal relationship between "try their hand" and "farming".
Answer: No.